# Workshop Abstract

The purpose of the materials knowledge system workshop is to provide
practical knowledge in using spatial statistics to improve the
efficiency and efficacy of multiscale simulations and experimental
characterization involving materials microstructure see([1], [2] and
[3]. The workshop will focus on providing participants with a set of
computational tools and the knowledge to use these tools effectively.

The workshop will take place over two days in the CTCMS facility in
building 223.  The anticipated attendance is approximately 20, with
the majority of the attendees being NIST employees.  The CTCMS will
provide the necessary computational resources and presentation
aids. The workshop tutorials will be publicly available and written in
either Python or Matlab. The first day of the workshop will focus on
the fundamentals of spatial statistics and fast regression
analysis. The second day of the workshop will apply the fundamental
concepts from the first day to address specific applications in
materials science.

The techniques covered in the workshop are useful to any computational
materials scientist and are especially relevant to many of the
microstructure characterization challenges associated with the
Materials Genome Initiative.  However, the use of spatial statistics
is not well understood or practiced by the majority of the MSED. The
use of spatial statistics to improve computation simulations and
characterization is an ideal fit to support the Materials Genome
Initiative as it uses very large data sets and requires sophisticated
data management. These techniques have the promise of being at the
heart of the transformation of materials science with big data.

As an immediate impact it is hoped that the workshop will allow the
participants to significantly augment their existing workflow
involving micro-scale and continuum simulations or experimental
characterization to enable more efficient processing of large sets of
parameters and material configurations.

[1]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2010.10.008

[2]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2010.01.007

[3]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11837-011-0057-7
