# MKS Workshop, 01/13/2014 and 01/14/2014

Microstructure informatics is an emerging suite of signal processing
techniques, advance statistical tools and data science methods
tailored specifically to the study of microstructure in materials
science. The Materials Knowledge System (MKS) forms an important part
of microstructure informatics by employing a regression technique to
generate microstructure/response relationships.

This goal of the Materials Knowledge System (MKS) workshop will be to
provide participants with a practical knowledge in using spatial
statistics to improve the efficiency and efficacy of multiscale
simulations and experimental simulations involving materials
microstructure. Please see [ABSTRACT.md](ABSTRACT.md) for an extended
workshop abstract.

## Workshop Details

[Tony Fast](http://mined.gatech.edu/the-ga-tech-mined-research-group/ga-tech-mined-research-group-tony-fast)
will lead the workshop. Tony is an expert in using spatial statistics
in the context of materials informatics. Rather than the workshop
consisting of individual presentations, the time will be mostly spent
working through coded examples. The examples will appear in the MKS
repository before the workshop starts (either in Python or Matlab, or
both), see https://github.com/wd15/pymks.  There will be an opportunity
for participants to make very short presentations (5 minutes) to
highlight their own interests related to microstructure informatics or
any materials data analysis problems.

## Signing Up

Please email daniel.wheeler@nist.gov if you wish to attend the
workshop. The workshop is currently for NIST employees and associates
only.

